# docker-compose-wp-duplicate
Run a Wordpress-Duplicator backup using Docker Compose.

# Use case

I use this to run a copy of my old Wordpress blog in case I want to make tweaks and re-import the data into my new non-wordpress site.

Starting from a zip file and installer.php generated by Wordpress Duplicator
This project can bring up a backup of your site running locally.

Ensure files are in the wp-archive
```
$ ls wp-archive
20171025_devstu_ed680e55e011c2356456171025215736_archive.zip  installer.php
```

Start docker
```
$ docker-compose up
```

By design changes are not saved: changes must be backed up using duplicator.

For more detailed info, see the Usage section.

## Features

 - Sets up Wordpress, Apache and Mysql on build
 - Modifies site urls to localhost or custom URL so links work locally.

## Usage

On wordpress install the duplicator plugin from https://wordpress.org/plugins/duplicator/

There is a video at the link above with more information on using duplicator itself.

[Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

Clone this repository

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/stuaxo/wp-duplicate-docker.git
```

Copy the duplicator archive and `installer.php` to the `wp-archive` folder.

Set the correct database version:
- In the ```db``` section, change the database to the version your wordpress instance needs.
- The default site url is http://localhost if you need to change this edit ```WORDPRESS_URL```.

Run your blog in docker:

```sh
docker-compose up --build
```

Subsequent runs don't need previous `--build` step:
```sh
$docker-compose up
```

Your wordpress site will now be available at ```http://localhost``` or the URL you chose.

# Configuration
The following environment variables can be set by modifying the `docker-compose.yml` file:

Wordpress
```
# Set the URL that wordpress runs on:
WORDPRESS_URL: 'http://localhost'
# Database credentials:
WORDPRESS_DB_HOST: db
WORDPRESS_DB_NAME: wordpress
WORDPRESS_DB_USER: root
WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD: password
```

MySQL
```
MYSQL_DATABASE: wordpress
MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: password
```

# Security
This setup is made for local development, so is not setup to be secure.

# Scripts
In the `duplicator/` folder:

## `duplicate-entrypoint.sh`
- Checks there is only one duplicator archive in wp-archive then calls `restore-duplicate`
- Runs Apache to serve the Wordpress site.

## `restore-duplicate.sh`
- Extracts the duplicator archive in `wp-archive`.
- Restores the database backup.
- Configures Wordpress with settings to run in docker.  

## Troubleshooting
If you already run a webserver such as Apache or Nginx on port 80 you will need to stop it first, 
the same applies for MariaDB or Mysql.

## Issues
By design: changes to the duplicate site are currently not saved, this is fine for my purposes but may not be for you.

## TODO
Provide a getting-started script that can check the database version.

# Thanks

Wordpress - for Wordpress and the wordpress docker file, that this uses.

Various Docker file authors, I looked at quite a few in putting this together.
